林宇廷

歷史學系一年級

政見
#友善台大 是去年會長補選時我提出的政見,為了實踐提出的理念,我們成立了「友善台大NTU’s Heart」粉絲專頁,作為獨立的校園政策智庫與倡議團體。我們優先處理的是「取消服務學習」這個項目,目前已經有懶人包、問卷分析,校園連署也正在進行中,粉專上面都有,希望大家可以支持。至於本次參選的政策有「友善台大十大建設」:
一、友善校園
a. 取消服務學習一二三必修,改為有學分的一般選修。
b. 爭取桃園、基隆、新北市偏遠地區的住宿權益。
c. 在各建築物洗手間設置烘乾機或固定式吹風機,作為雨天對策,可先在博雅大樓試點試辦。
d. 盤整校內無線網路基地台,汰換老舊機器。
e. 爭取學生證改版,開放全校設計徵稿。
二、精神友善
a. 檢討現有心輔中心資源,監督學務處補足法定心輔人力。
b. 盤點與推廣國際學生突發事件的應對資源。
c. 檢討現行導師制度,針對研議中的「專責導師制度」予以審慎支持。
三、性別友善
a. 協助校內性別友善廁所的持續推廣。
b. 修改請假辦法納入同性伴侶。(台灣目前有同性伴侶登記制度的縣市有:高雄市、台北市、台中市、台南市、新北市、嘉義市、桃園市、彰化縣、新竹縣、宜蘭縣)
c. 爭取新建宿舍納入性別友善宿舍。理想目標是性別友善宿舍不以性別劃分使用權,保障學生的多元住宿選擇。
d. 檢討新生書院課程安排,改進現有的戀愛互動與性別知識課程,抗議學校直接裁撤性別課程的粗暴作法。
四、語言友善
a. 檢討畢業英語門檻。
b. 爭取生活輔導與心理諮商的英語資源,讓國際學生方便使用。
五、飲食選擇友善
a. 在台大農場進行沙威瑪養殖,提升台灣物種多樣性與台大美食多樣性。
b. 項目「五 a. 」當然是開玩笑的。
c. 推行餐廳試營運與評鑑制度,台大需要更多好吃的東西。
d. 爭取校內清真飲食/蛋奶素食/剩食餐廳的進駐。
六、轉雙輔權益
a. 將加簽、學分抵免制度制度化,施行辦法必須公開透明。
b. 爭取轉學生社群參與權,新生書院應納入轉學生。
七、工程建設
a. 持續推動無障礙校園建設。
b. 繼續追蹤延宕多年的新工綜、人文大樓工程,監督新規劃的瑠公圳復育計劃、動工中的教二大樓,以及遲遲不能改善的小椰林道悲慘路面問題。
八、在瑠公圳與醉月湖裡面養水豚
a. 為了全面建設友善療癒校園,水豚是不可或缺的。
b. 項目「八 a. 」也是開玩笑的。
c. 亂放生是不好的,大家一起關心環境議題。
九、環境友善
a. 爭取剩食餐廳進駐或者校內滯銷餐點降價出售,減少食物浪費,實踐負責任的生產消費循環。
十、其他待追蹤的重大學生權益項目
校長遴選案、國北教併校案、國際學院設立案、不續訂 Elsevier以及其他期刊資源的替代方案、校園開放資料(open data)⋯⋯。
Politics
1. friendly Campus
A. Abolish the 3 require credits of Service Learning Course,
and to transform it into selective credits.
B. Fight for the right to live in the dormitory for students from
Taoyuan City, Keelung City and some remote areas in New
Taipei City.
C. Set up drying machines and stationary hair dryers in campus
restrooms, which is great in raining days. Pilot program can be
run in Liberal Education Classroom Building.
D. Assess and examine all wifi stations in the campus to
improve the campus internet service.
E. Modification of the Student ID card. Using student’s design.
2. Psycho- friendly
A. Review the current resource distribution of the Student
Counseling Center, and urge the Office of Student Affairs to
enroll a number of counselors which meet the legal standard.
B. Clarify the ways which international students can seek help
in case of an emergency, and promote those related
knowledges to every student in NTU.
C. Review the currently in use Adviser / Room Teacher policy,
and support the Student Affairs Counselor system with
consideration and evaluation.
3. Gender Friendly
A. Promote the establishment of Neutral Restroom/ All Gender
Restroom in NTU.
B. Including same sex partner related event as one of the
reasons to request for a leave of absence.
C. Establish the Gender Friendly Dormitory.
D. Review the planning the gender courses of Freshmen
Enrollment Academy .
4. Language Friendly
A. Review the current language proficiency standard for
graduation.
B. Increase the number of foreign language proficient counselor
to make it possible for foreign students to receive counseling
service.
5. Food and Drink Friendly
A. Import Shawarma into NTU farm to further increase the
species diversity and food diversity in NTU.
B. Section 5A is just a joke.
C. Promote restaurant trial operation and evaluation.
D. Support Halal Food Restaurant, Vegetarian Restaurant, or
InStock restaurant on the campus.
6. The Right of being a Minor, a Double Major and a Transfer
A. Standardized how to sign up courses and waive credits. The
standard should be transparent.
B. Assure transfer students’ right to participate in Freshmen
Enrollment Academy.
7. Hardware Construction
A. Support the establishment of a barrier- free campus.
B. Monitor the progress of many unfinished school
constructions.
8. Import capybara into Liu-Gong Jun and Drunken Moon Lake
A. Keeping capybara is a good way to bring a kind, friendly
atmosphere to the campus.
B. Section 8A is also a joke.
C. Do not release animals. Let’s pay more attention on
environmental issues.
9. Environment friendly
A. Support InStock restaurant on the campus. Or promote
unsold products in restaurants to lower the price and avoid
waste. Ensure sustainable consumption and production.
10. Other important issues related to students
School principal election, merging with NTUE, the
establishment of the International College, the alternatives after
NTU stops subscribing to Elsevier and other journals , campus
open data. etc...