梁聖宇

政治學系政治理論組二年級

【政見】
【一、空間活化】
（一）夜間活動空間使用開放
重新檢視校內閒置空間，針對同學練習表演之時段與地點進行調查，與校方爭取夜間10點之後開放使用。
（二） 爭取校內空間收費調降
針對部分收費昂貴的校內場地爭取費用調降，例如:活大怡仁堂
（三）各院系空間檢討與整體環境改善
透過學生開放空間的調查與串聯，將要求校方提供補助款於各院系以資鼓勵院系所的空間實質改善。
（四）睡眠、休息空間的實質落實
推動以各教學館之閒置小型教室，改建為休息空間，營造安靜的環境，供同學於課間時段小憩。
（五）社團借用程序網站、行政程序的優化
借用場地與舉辦活動的程序電子化
（六）活大空間改善
推動廢除活大學生開放空間，將沙發區改為木頭桌椅，增加學生使用效率，並優化垃圾回收動線。
【二、教務改良】
（一）教學意見調查結果公開以改善選課資訊不足
推動校方公開課程期中、期末教學意見調查結果，以供學生選課時參考，獲得即時而多元的資訊。
（二）實習選修納入學分化
推動各系將系所認證的實習工作，列入選修學分採計
（三）大學國文一，列入原住民語言、閩南語、客語的課程認定。
（四）落實期中退選制度
（五）爭取廢除英檢門檻
（六）推動服務學習改革
持續進行服學課程精實化改革，監督服學一、二開課內容，爭取校級服學中心，提供健全的服學師資，並建議台大課程網新增服學課程欄位，以及針對服學課程進行課程評鑑。
【三、生活品質改善】
（一）爭取住宿資格
爭取以通勤距離作為分配宿舍之依據，在一定通勤距離之外的北北基學生，比照辦理採桃園市的抽籤資格。
（二）自煮空間的推動
針對現有空間進行檢討報告，並推動校園自煮運動，定期舉辦活動，在各個宿舍推動學生自煮，除了提供同學一個友善的煮食空間，也透過煮食增進同學間的交流。
（三）學生換宿資訊平台的常態化
我將提案建立並優化長期的換宿平台網站，給予同學方便實用的換宿機制。
（四）餐車增設
我將進行校內餐車大調查，針對同學所需求的餐車地點、食物內容等等做調查，並改善校內餐車進駐辦法，積極爭取同學期待的店家進駐餐車服務
（五）計中服務、列印服務
我將要求計中所提供的列印服務，擴展到校園各角落，詳細地點如：管院、社科院圖書館、總圖，以及各個能夠提供列印服務的系館。
（六）建置失物招領平台
(1)建置校級失物招領平台，於學期開始時啟用(2)於網站建立初期，進行一連串的線上線下推廣活動，使臺大同學快速習慣於使用此平台(3)進一步彙整資訊，針對同學容易遺失物品的地點進行檢討，審視是否有增設監視器等等的改善需求。
（七）無現金校園
爭取悠遊卡公司、各大銀行業者、行動支付公司在校園內裝設機台，讓校內每家廠商都可以適用於無現金支付；並且於宿舍推動悠遊卡支付洗衣機費用，減少生活上的不便。
（八）監督校方開發臺大APP
過去校方並無直接對學生的窗口，以至於各種突發事件無法及時通知學生。透過開發介面友善的臺大APP，使學生不僅可以獲得校務系統的資訊，也可以獲得校內各種活動資訊。
【四、文化深度交流】
（一）舉辦文化祭
我將透過活動、學術、美食不同面向的形式，推廣文化交流，內容涵蓋各國文化，本土文化，以及原住民文化。亦期待透過與院系學會的合辦，讓活動層級提升為全臺大人的活動。因此將透過在各院系所的活動、展覽舉辦，同時讓同學與各院系的空間、歷史進行互動，讓文化走進生活。
（二）雙語政策檢討
由於僑外生的語言程度不一，將重新檢討分等分級制度，並依據需求，增設基礎國文課，以及英文授課科目，另外並與師大中文課程資源接軌與合作，提升僑外生的語言能力。
（三）制度化長期交流活動
我將與國際事務相關社團以及各國家的友會進行合作串聯，定期舉辦主題性的語言交換活動以及交流活動
（四）校內電腦輸入法改善
我將要求校內提供學生使用的公用電腦統一安裝學生需求之語言輸入法，並刪除使用率極低的輸入法
【五、永續校園】
（一）降低塑膠製品的使用量
初期，我將以獎勵的方式，推動校內集點制度，學生使用自己的環保餐具購買食物，便可以集點，學生會提供獎勵制度供同學換取獎品。中期，我會要求校內店家以「就口杯蓋」代替杯蓋加上吸管，減少塑膠製品的使用量。後期，進一步推動校內共享環保餐具，學生得以從校內購買食物後，將環保餐具還至任意一個商家。學生依舊可以將食物外帶至上課地點。學生會於此計畫試行後，經過評估，再進一步與學校周邊廠商合作，共同推動就口杯蓋與環保餐具使用。
（二）永續監督
管中閔校長在校務會議上，承諾針對校務基金高汙染產業撤資，我將持續監督管校長對於其承諾的實踐。我同時將要求校內各商家公布食材來源以及營養成分，倡導校內商家使用小農產品和動物友善食材，也倡導學生選擇該商家購買。


English ver.
[1. Space activation]
(1) Open space for night activities
Re-examine the idle space in the school, investigate the time and place for the students to practice the performance, and strive for the use after 10:00 pm.
(2) Strive for the reduction of school space charges
We hope can ask the school for lowering the cost of some of the expensive on-campus venues, for example:活大
(3) Space review and overall environmental improvement in each department
Through the investigation and concatenation of the student's open space, the school will be required to provide subsidies to each department to encourage the actual improvement of the space of the department.
(4) The actual implementation of sleep and rest space
Promote the use of small classrooms in the teaching halls, and remodel them into rest spaces to create a quiet environment for students to take a break during class hours.
(5) Optimization of the website and administrative procedures of the community borrowing program
(6) Improvement of 活大
Promote the abolition of the open space of living college students, change the sofa area to a wood table and chair, increase student efficiency, and optimize the garbage recycling line.
[2, teaching improvement]
(1) The results of the teaching opinion survey are open to improve the information on the elective course
Promote the results of the mid-term and final-term teaching opinions of the school's public courses for students to refer to when they choose courses, and obtain instant and diverse information.
(2) Internship electives are included in the academic differentiation
Promote the internships certified by the departments to be included in the elective credits
(3) The National Language of the University, which is included in the curriculum definition of Aboriginal language, Min Nan language and Hakka language.
(4) Mid-term withdrawal system
(5) Strive to abolish the threshold of the British inspection
(6) Promoting service learning reform
Continue to carry out the reform of the service course, supervise the content of the first and second courses, strive for the school-level service center, provide a sound service teacher, and recommend the new course network for the NTU curriculum network, as well as for the service The course is evaluated by the course.
[3, quality of life improvement]
(1) Eligibility for accommodation
We will strive to use the commuting distance as the basis for allocating the dormitory. Students who are outside the certain commuting distance will be eligible for the lottery in Taoyuan City.
(2) The promotion of self-cooking space
Conducting a review report on the existing space, promoting the school self-cooking campaign, and regularly organizing activities to promote self-cooking in each dormitory. In addition to providing a friendly cooking space for students, it also promotes exchanges among students through cooking.
(3) Normalization of student accommodation information platform
I will establish and optimize the long-term website of the website for the proposal, and give the students a convenient and practical accommodation mechanism.
(4) Addition of dining car
I will conduct a survey of the dining car in the school, investigate the dining car location, food content, etc. that the students need, and improve the way of dining in the school, and actively strive for the store to wait for the store.
(5) Counting services and printing services
I will ask for the printing services provided in the meter to be extended to all corners of the campus, such as the Guanyuan, the Library of the Academy of Social Sciences, the general map, and the various departments that can provide printing services.
(6) Building a lost and found platform
(1) Establish a school-level lost and found platform, which will be activated at the beginning of the semester. (2) At the beginning of the website, a series of online and offline promotion activities will be carried out, so that students from Taiwan University can quickly get used to using this platform (3) to further integrate information. Review the locations where students are likely to lose items and examine whether there are additional needs for additional monitors and so on.
(7) Cashless campus
We will strive to install the machine on the campus by the company, the major bankers and the mobile payment company, so that every manufacturer in the school can apply for cashless payment. In the dormitory, the leisure card is used to pay for the washing machine and reduce the inconvenience in life.
(8) Supervising the school to develop the Taiwan University APP
In the past, the school did not have a direct window to the students, so that various incidents could not be notified to students in time. Through the development of the friendly platform of the National Taiwan University APP, students will not only get information on the school system, but also information on various activities on campus.
[4, cultural depth exchange]
(1) Holding a cultural festival
I will promote cultural exchanges through activities, academics, and different aspects of food, covering cultures, local cultures, and Aboriginal cultures. It is also expected that through the joint work with the Faculty of the Faculty, the activity level will be promoted to the activities of the adults of Taiwan. Therefore, it will be held in the activities and exhibitions of various faculties, and at the same time, let students interact with the space and history of each department to let culture enter life.
(2) Bilingual policy review
Due to the varying degrees of language of overseas Chinese, the grading system will be re-examined, and basic Chinese language courses and English-speaking subjects will be added according to the needs. In addition, the Chinese language resources of the National Taiwan Normal University will be integrated and cooperated to enhance the language of overseas Chinese. ability.
(3) Institutionalized long-term exchange activities
I will work in tandem with international affairs-related associations and friends from various countries to regularly organize thematic language exchange activities and exchange activities.
(4) Improvement of computer input method in school
I will ask the school to provide a public computer for students to install the language input method for students' needs, and delete the input method with very low usage rate.
[5. Sustainable Campus]
(1) Reducing the use of plastic products
In the early days, I will promote the school's collection system by means of rewards. Students can use their own environmentally-friendly tableware to buy food, and they can collect points. The student union will provide a reward system for students to exchange prizes. In the medium term, I will ask the school's store to replace the cup lid with a straw with a "cup lid" to reduce the amount of plastic products used. In the later period, the school will further promote the sharing of environmentally-friendly tableware. Students can purchase environmentally-friendly tableware from any school after purchasing food from the school. Students can still take food outside to the school location. After the trial of the program, the student union will be evaluated and further cooperated with the surrounding manufacturers to promote the use of cup lids and environmentally-friendly tableware.
(2) Perpetual supervision
At the school meeting, President Guan Zhongyu promised to divest the high-pollution industry of the school fund. I will continue to supervise the principal's practice of its commitment. At the same time, I will ask all the businesses in the school to announce the source of ingredients and nutrients, advocate the use of small agricultural products and animal-friendly ingredients in the school, and also encourage students to choose the business to buy.
