楊子昂

醫學三

【「有感」之後,我們「共感」】
一個屬於學生的學生會,該是什麼樣子?
常有人喊「學生自治要開放」,或是要一個「有感的學生會」。過去一年來,我在福利部負責總務,處理的是廢棄腳踏車,是 Ubike2.0 和城中的交通車班次。但在一年之後,我認為:學生自治的「開放」,不只是發下問卷或粉專訊息;學生會在「有感」之後,更該追求「共感」——柴米油鹽醬醋茶之外,看見問卷裡寫不下的難言困境,同理並堅定的對抗結構與權力;這是議題,也是生活。從有感到共感,我們攜手一起做。

▌有感
一、交通:阿我就怕被撞阿
‧重新檢視校園道路規劃,打造行人與腳踏車本位的友善校園
‧全校性分區清理廢棄腳踏車
二、城中:我著是恁厝邊
‧積極接洽共享機車廠商,劃設特約停車場
‧追蹤舊社科院空間使用計畫,落實空間活化
‧醫體室外場地改建風雨球場
三、社團:自己的社團自己顧
‧放寬現行指導老師簽核制度
‧簡化場地借用程序,降低收費與確立退費機制
四、網路:線上飆仔我最行
‧放寬離峰時段流量限制,避免尖峰時段大塞車
‧檢視網路不穩問題,追蹤計中訊號改善
五、數位人權:天眼閉起來,學習自己來
‧Ntu Cool 留言、影片觀看紀錄匿名化
‧建立門禁紀錄調用規範
‧檢討疫情後校園個資管理
六、永續:在地球混,總有一天是要還ㄉ。。。
‧持續推動校務基金責任投資原則
‧推動全校環保餐具租用系統
‧接洽特約環保餐具廠商,支持各系、院活動使用

▌共感
一、性別:身體不再封建,暴力不再重現
‧爭取女宿新增衛生棉販賣機、小福加賣保險套
‧推動性平會積極教育功能,研擬新生講座性別課程
‧增聘性暴力處遇專業的心輔師
‧持續追蹤性別友善宿舍興建狀況
‧持續推動性別友善廁所增設
二、心輔資源:★將你的心 UNLOCK★
‧提高保健中心身心科門診頻率
‧爭取學校統一經費,提供各院增聘學輔專員
三、國際生與僑生:恁嘛是阮厝邊
‧協助各國學生建立支持社群
‧國際事務部和各國友會建立聯繫網絡
四、勞動:積極介入約聘人員訂約過程,監督校方保障勞動權益
‧推動清潔員加班費制度
‧保障穩定工作環境
‧逐步以台大直接聘僱取代與清潔公司簽約
‧持續進行訪調計畫
五、本土語言與轉型正義:從未記得,何來遺忘
‧監督校方成立威權歷史調查小組,並納入學生代表
‧增設進階本土語言課程
‧考察校園週遭地名歷史,找回本土語言記憶

▌動感:乂卍↖正★★復刻時代感文化祭,找回台灣的文化記憶★★正↗卍乂
面對世界,要如何大聲的把「台灣文化」說出口?
在嫌棄這塊土地之前,你可曾經想像,一百年前的台灣學生如何生活?摩登的思潮隨著日本的統治進入島嶼,殖民陰影下的都會青年也遇見啟蒙,從自由戀愛到罷工罷課,從現代公園到社交舞池——在認同間掙扎的同時,也追尋理想的生活。百年前的台北,就在這些複雜力量的交錯中,鐫刻出獨一無二的文化樣貌。
從生活與歷史出發,我們要以展覽、市集、劇場,讓曾有的台北風華再現一時,藉此追尋「台灣文化」的前世今生。

【Let our policies be seen, let our minorities be seen.】
A student association that belongs to students, what should it be like?
Sometimes, people said: ”Student association should open to everyone instead of few student
representatives.” Or, “ We want a student association which promotes influential/perceptible
policies.” Over a past year, I was in charge of general affairs in the Department of Welfare, dealing with issues on abandoned bikes, Ubike 2.0 and the shuttle bus schedules. However, a year later, I now consider the “openness” not merely surveys or messages from our fanpage—— besides daily necessities, still there are dilemmas that can’t be expressed thoroughly through surveys. After influential/perceptible policies NTUSA has made, we shall all begin to empathize, that is, fight against the social structure and the power with determination and empathy. Never do we have to choose between influential/perceptible policy and empathy. While we pursue tangible changes in lives, we feel, and we feel the feelings of others.

▌Let our policies be seen.
1.Transportation
‧Review road planning on campus, creating a friendly environment that gives priority to pedestrians and bicycles
‧Clear up abandoned bicycles by area schoolwide
2.Downtown Campus
‧Approach scooter sharing service company and set up designated parking lots
‧Track the remodeling progression of former College of Social Science building, ensuring the
redevelpoment of space
‧Remodel outdoor courts on medical campus into covered courts
‧Designated place for sex around Downtown Campus
3.Club
‧Review present instructors’ sign-off system
‧Simplify the procedire of booking venue, reduce the charge and establish the refund policy
4.Internet
‧Increase the network traffic during off-peak hours, preventing the network congestion during peak hours
‧Review the problem of network lagging, tracking the signal improvement of Comupter and Information Networking Center
5.Digital rights
‧Anonymize the comment and watching history on NTU Cool
‧Establish regulations on the access to door access control records
‧Review personal information management after the pandemic
6.Sustainability
‧Keep promoting school authority to adopt Principlesfor Responsibility Investment (PRI)
‧Promote the schoolwide eco-friendly tableware rental system
‧Approach designated cooperation manufacturer of eco-friendly tableware, encourage each deparment and college to use

▌Let our minorities be seen.
1.Gender
‧Promote adding sanitary pad vending machines at female dorms and the selling of condom at Xiao Fu commissary
‧Promote the proactively educational function of gender equality education comittee, planning gender courses on Freshman Forum
‧Employ counselors specializing in sexual violence treatment
‧Keep tracking the building progress of all gender dormitory
‧Keep promoting the addition of all gender restroom
2.Counseling resources
‧Increase the frequency of psychiatry clinics at Health Center
‧Strive for fundings from school authority for the employment of conselor in each college
3.International and overseas Chinese Students
‧Assist students from all countries in organizing supporting community
‧Promote the establishment of network between the Department of International Affairs and other international students associations
4.Labor rights
‧Establish janitors’ overtime pay policy
‧Ensure a stable working environment
‧Promote school authority to progrssively employ janitors directly instead of signing contracts with cleaning service companies
‧Continue to interview and investigate
5.Vernacular and transitional justice
‧Supervise the establishment of authoritarian history investigation team by school authority, also, the inclusion of student representatives
‧Addition of advanced courses on vernaculars
‧Research on history of toponyms surrounding the campus, recovering the vernacular memory

▌Activity: Vintage Cultural Festival
The history of Taiwan is being forgotten due to numerous political issues; therefore, we will hold a vintage cultural festival on campus——reproducing Taiwanese lives in the past, and searching for the contexts of Taiwanese culture.